# Create GitHub web pages for your Arduino library project

Keep `GitHub Pages` for projects in the same repository as the main project, e.g., `LedTask`, but in a separate `gh-pages` branch. Use the `master` branch for core content, i.e., your project library source code.

You can do this by "orphan" -ing off a `gh-pages` branch of the repository. This new `orphan branch` has no history and commits, which allows you to make the webpages history independent of your original library source code. 

I will create a `GitHub Page` for my project `LedTask`. In addition, I intend to publish class documentation generated by `Doxygen`. I only push static web pages and do not use GitHub Jekyll webpages machinery to build the site. 

## Create the new branch 'gh-pages'

The alias `git sw2` is really `git checkout`, and `git sta` is `git status`. It's just a little shorter and easier to remember.
```
cd LedTask
git sw2 --orphan gh-pages        
git sta
```
## Remove the git files that belong to the library in the 'master' branch

Remove the files in the `gh-pages` branch that only belongs to Gits `master` branch and the code development. These files are the ones that the `git sta` shows—for example, src-folder, examples-folder, LICENSE, README.md, etc., for an Arduino library project.

The branch likely contains other files and directories, usually excluded in the `.gitignore` file. Do not delete non-git-indexed files (Makefile, LedTask.doxyfile, ...) and directories (test, build,...). The `git sta` output tells you which files should be removed (but keep the `.gitignore` file) in the `gh-pages` branch.

```
rm -fr src
rm -fr examples
rm -fr images
rm LICENSE
rm README.md
rm library.properties
rm keywords.txt
...
```
It is a good idea to keep the `.gitignore` from the `master` branch.

## Prepare for the GitHub pages content

It's possible to keep the GitHub page content in the `root`-folder or a subdirectory named `/docs`. However, Doxygen generates lots of files in the same directory. Therefore I chose the latter alternative with `/docs`. Since we will push ready-made static web pages, we add the `.nojekyll` file in the root as [required](https://docs.github.com/en/pages/getting-started-with-github-pages/about-github-pages#static-site-generators). 

```
mkdir docs
touch .nojekyll

../LedTask (gh-pages)$ ls -la
    drwxr-xr-x 4 bekr bekr 4096 Sep  4 21:44 .
    drwxr-xr-x 8 bekr bekr 4096 Sep  4 19:38 ..
    drwxr-xr-x 2 bekr bekr 4096 Sep  4 21:37 docs
    drwxr-xr-x 8 bekr bekr 4096 Sep  4 21:39 .git
    -rw-r--r-- 1 bekr bekr  214 Sep  4 11:31 .gitignore
    -rw-r--r-- 1 bekr bekr    0 Sep  4 21:38 .nojekyll
    ...
    ...
```

Commit to Git.

```
git add .
git commit -m 'initial Github pages commit'
```

## Add static content for GitHub pages to an existing site

Copy generated Doxygen content, i.e., all files recursively from the `/html` folder to `/docs` in the `gh-pages` branch. The site `https://berrak.github.io/LedTask/` already exist.

- Push the documentation. The `--set-upstream` means that the local repo tracks change upstream.
  
```
git add .
git com -m 'add GitHub pages content'
git push --set-upstream origin gh-pages
```

In this case, the repository (master branch) already existed.

## Push content to a new repository 

If this is a new repository, use `git remote` first. 
```
git remote add origin https://github.com/berrak/LedTask.git
git vre
git push -u origin gh-pages
```

## Tell GitHub to build your newly uploaded content

The remaining action is to tell GitHub to fetch the content from the `docs` folder.

Follow [GitHub instruction](https://docs.github.com/en/pages/getting-started-with-github-pages/configuring-a-publishing-source-for-your-github-pages-site) to name the branch for your GitHub pages files. 

Finally, view the `Doxygen` generated class documentation for the project [LedTask](https://berrak.github.io/LedTask/).

## Update GitHub pages content

Add and push additional content to the GitHub repository on the `gh-pages` branch.

```
git add .
git com -m 'some comment'
git push
```

## Later, work with the 'master' and the 'gh-pages' branches

Switch to the `master` branch and push updates to the Arduino library files as usual.

```
git sw2 master
...
git push
```

If GitHub pages need to be updated or added, switch to `gh-pages` branch and push any changes.

```
git sw2 gh-pages
...
git push
```
